[WF-185] Add and update Airflow Rocks Documentation (#8)
canonical/airflow-rocks: README.md

### Using Pebble inside the container

```bash
docker exec -it <container_id> pebble services
docker exec -it <container_id> pebble logs
```

## Rock services and checks

The rock defines one service, managed by Pebble:

```yaml
services:
  airflow:
    startup: enabled
    command: /usr/bin/airflow standalone
```

This runs Airflow’s built-in standalone mode, which launches:

* An API-Server
* A scheduler
* A metadata database (SQLite, by default)

A simple liveness check verifies Airflow is running:

```yaml
checks:
  airflow-running:
    exec:
      command: pgrep airflow
```

## Parts Explained

The rock is built from several parts:

| Part                       | Purpose                                                                 |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **airflow**                | Builds Apache Airflow from source and installs providers                |
| **airflow-license**        | Includes upstream Apache Airflow LICENSE                                |
| **airflow-rock-license**   | Includes the LICENSE for this rock                                      |

> | **env_stage** *(optional)* | Stages a system-wide `/etc/environment` file with environment variables |

Reviewer: please confirm if the `env_stage` part still exists - i was under the assumption that it was removed

### Python constraints

The build uses Airflow’s official constraints file for a certain version of Python, for example:

```yaml
python-constraints:
  - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/airflow/constraints-3.1.0/constraints-3.12.txt
```

This ensures the pinned versions of all dependencies and providers match the desired version of Airflow.

## Provider packages

The rock installs a comprehensive list of Airflow providers, including:

* Amazon (`apache-airflow-providers-amazon`)
* Google (`apache-airflow-providers-google`)
* Kubernetes (`apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes`)
* PostgreSQL, MySQL, ODBC, Redis, etc.

To customize providers, edit the `python-packages` list in the `airflow` part.
### List providers installed
```bash
airflow providers list
```

## Licensing

Two license files are included in the rock image:

* `licenses/LICENSE-airflow` – Apache 2.0 license for upstream Airflow

> * `licenses/LICENSE-airflow-rock` – License for this rock’s source

Reviewer: might be good to be explicit about the rock license too (e.g. `Apache 2.0 license for this rock's source`)

# Airflow Rock

## Monolithic repository for Airflow Rocks.

Rocks for Apache Airflow.
This repository hosts all the necessary files to build Rocks for various Airflow components.

> To interact with this repository, use `just` to run commands.

Author: Ack, Addressed

## Developing Apache Airflow Rock

This document further explains how to build, customize, and work with the **Apache Airflow Rock** defined in `rockcraft.yaml`.

> It is intended for maintainers and contributors working on this rock.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is intended for people interested in creating their own version of the rock.
```

---

## Overview

This rock builds **Apache Airflow 3.1.0** from source on **Ubuntu 24.04 (Python 3.12)** and packages it as a Pebble-managed OCI container.
It includes a wide range of official Airflow providers and runs Airflow in standalone mode by default.

**Key features:**

* Builds Airflow directly from the upstream GitHub tag (`3.1.0`).

> * Uses the official constraints file for Python 3.12 to ensure dependency compatibility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Uses the official constraints file for Python to ensure dependency compatibility.
```

* Stages common Airflow provider packages.
* Runs the Airflow webserver and scheduler automatically via Pebble on startup.
* Includes licensing information for both Airflow and this rock.

## Project Structure

```
airflow-rocks/
├─ 3.1.0/
│  ├─ rockcraft.yaml         # Rockcraft manifest defining the rock

> │  └─ DEVELOPING.md          # (this file)

Reviewer 2: Is that the case, though? I believe the DEVELOPING.md file is in the root dir.

```

## Rock services and checks

The rock defines one service, managed by Pebble:

```yaml
services:
  airflow:
    startup: enabled
    command: /usr/bin/airflow standalone
```

This runs Airflow’s built-in standalone mode, which launches:

* A webserver (API-Server)
* A scheduler
* A metadata database (SQLite, by default)

A simple liveness check verifies Airflow is running:

```yaml
checks:
  airflow-running:
    exec:
      command: pgrep airflow
```

## Parts Explained

The rock is built from several parts:

| Part                       | Purpose                                                                 |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **airflow**                | Builds Apache Airflow from source and installs providers                |
| **airflow-license**        | Includes upstream Apache Airflow LICENSE                                |
| **airflow-rock-license**   | Includes the LICENSE for this rock                                      |
| **env_stage** *(optional)* | Stages a system-wide `/etc/environment` file with environment variables |

### Python constraints

> The build uses Airflow’s official constraints file for Python 3.12:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The build uses Airflow’s official constraints file for a certain version of Python, for example:
```
